[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: A generator is a new
exotic form of function introduced in ES6.
And we're going to look at
the actual mechanism first,
understanding some of how it works and
that kind of thing.
And at first as we're looking at it,
it's not gonna
look like this has anything at all
to do with asynchronous programming.
It's going to seem a bit strange and
out of place.
I promise there's a reason
why we're going through it.
This is a fundamental part
of the whole picture.
If promises were about solving
the inversion of control issue in callback
hell, generators are about
solving the non-local,
non-sequential reasonability problem.
So they are gonna provide us
a really powerful pattern for that.
But we need to understand, we need to
kinda walk through the plumbing of
the stuff to understand how it's working.
One of the things that you may
not have ever realized about
your assumptions with JavaScript.
Is that all functions, all normal
functions have a characteristic of them
which the fancy way of saying it is that
they have a run-to-completion semantic.
What that means is that when
a function starts running,
it will always run to
the end of that function and
finish before any other function has an
opportunity to come in and start running.
At any given moment,
only one function is actively executing.
And that doesn't mean it can't
call to other functions.
But it means that nobody can come in and
pre-emptively interrupt this
function to run something else.
It's a run-to-completion semantic.
And that may seem very academic in nature,
but
it's actually one of the most important
characteristics of JavaScript.
It's what allows us to reason about
things in a single threaded fashion.
Never having to worry about two functions,
one interrupting the other one and
corrupting our shared memory in
ways that we don't understand.
All the problems that you have to
deal with in threaded programming get
introduced when you don't have that
run-to-completion semantic, okay?
So it's one of the most fundamental
things that we've built all of
our understanding on JavaScript over.
So that might raise a few warning flags
in here when I tell you generators
do not have a run-to-completion semantic.
They're a different kind
of function altogether.
It's a very different kind of beast.
Now that's not designed to
introduce chaos into your program.
It's designed to introduce
a behavior that we
previously had to go to
a lot of work to simulate.
So it's adding a syntactic sugar, if you
will, on top of a behavior that we would
have had to spend quite a bit of time and
effort to try to emulate, okay?
So, the thing that we are attempting to
create with the syntax of a generator,
by the way JavaScript
didn't invent generators,
they come from other
languages like Python.
But the thing that we're trying to
create with the JavaScript generator,
is a syntactic form of
declaring a state machine.
State machines are, for those of you that
aren't aware, a way of having a patterned
series of flow from one state to
another state to another state.
And declaratively listing all those
states and those transitions out.
So we can implement state
machines without generators.
And I've done that many times.
Some of you may have implemented
your own state machines.
But you have to go to a lot of work,
and you have to end up using closure
around a function to remember the state
as it gets recalled over and over again.
And each time it's recalled it
remembers its previous state, and
it does this transition.
So it's possible but it's harder, and
it's a lot less clear what's going on.
A generator is a syntactic
form of a state machine.
And while that won't
seem like that has anything to do
with asynchronous programming.
It's actually a magical key
that will unlock one of our
really important characteristics
that we're going for.
So to get there, we wanna start looking
right at the very beginning at generators.
And what we're gonna see is that there's
this new special keyword called yield.
The yield keyword is kind of like
the Pause button on an old school VCR.
You're watching a movie and you click
the Pause button, literally pauses
right in mid-frame, nothing changes and
you can wait as long as you want to.
And then you can come along later and
press the Play button and resume.
So you can think of a generator
as a pausable function.
A function that when it's running,
would run across a yield keyword and
at that moment,
where ever the yield keyword shows up,
even right in the middle of an expression.
Everything just literally freezes,
it pauses.
And the generator enters
this paused state.
And it will wait for that pause state
indefinitely until some other actor
comes along and says it's time to resume,
and they press the Play button again.
So you can think about a generator
as a function that can pause and
resume, pause and resume,
as many times as necessary.
While a generator is paused,
on the inside of the generator,
everything is completely blocked.
Nothing is happening.
But that's not blocking
the overall program.
It's a localized blocking.
Only inside of the generator.
That's a really key issue, so even
though what I'm about to show you will
look like we're creating a blocking sort
of a thing, it's extremely localized.
It's not blocking the entire program.
So, here's an example of a generator.
You notice on line 1, we have that little
star symbol there because we need to
introduce a different kind of function
with a different set of behavior to it.
So there needs to be
a syntactic clue to the engine.
This is a different sort of a thing.
So its function*, that's how we
indicate that it's a generator.
[COUGH] You'll notice on line 3 that
we have the yield keyword there.
And that yield keyword
is the pause button.
So it's like the generator gets
to decide when it wants to pause.
Nobody on the outside gets to tell
the generator when to pause, so
it cannot be pre-emptively interrupted.
This is what we call
cooperative concurrency,
rather than preemptive concurrency.
So preemptive means somebody
else on the outside,
some outside force can come in and
interrupt you at any given moment.
That's the thing that causes chaos and
havoc in threaded languages.
We don't have that.
What we have is that the generator
gets to decide by virtue of calling
a yield keyword, when and where and
in what manner it wants to yield itself,
when it wants to pause itself.
Now, another thing that's
different about a generator from
the esthetic usage perspective.
On line 7, when I call gen,
I'm calling what normally looks
like just executing a function.
And we typically would expect for
it to execute the whole thing, but
actually none of the generator
runs at that point.
Executing a generator does not
actually run any of its code,
instead it produces an iterator.
>> Kyle Simpson: Some of you
hopefully have heard about iterators.
Iterators are a patterned
way of stepping through,
typically stepping through a set of data.
For example,
the results from a database query,
you would step through
them one result at a time.
You'd call .next, .next, .next, and
keep getting value results from a list
until there were no results to come back.
That's the iterator pattern.
And iterators are something that we've
been able to do ourselves in JavaScript
for a long time.
But they've now been added directly as
first class citizens to the language.
We can create our own, and
we can use generators that
are produced by other mechanisms.
In this case,
calling a generator produces an iterator.
And the purpose of the iterator in
this case is not to step through data,
but rather to step through the control
of our generator from the outside.
So again,
we can't pause the generator, but
we can ask the generator to
run until it wants to pause.
And then when we call .next again, we can
resume it and then it'll pause again, and
we can call .next and it'll resume,
and then it'll pause again.
So here on line 7 when I called gen,
none of the codes run.
But on line 8 when I call the first
.next call, I started up on line 2 and
I start running the generator.
So I'm gonna print out
the Hello that you see there.
And when it gets to the yield keyword
on line 3, it's going to pause and
return control back to line 8.
Line 8 could then proceed immediately to
line 9 and call .next again and resume it.
So you can synchronously step through it.
But of course, there could be a break,
there could be a gap, there could be
a delay in time between lines 8 and 9.
And in that period of time, the overall
program continues to run without change.
But what's different is that inside of
this generator, it's in this paused state.
It's blocking, it's waiting for
somebody to come along and
call the .next method again to resume.